In security, new technologies
present new challenges.
For every new security incident or
risk, the right or
wrong decision isn't always clear.
For example, imagine that you're working
as an entry-level security analyst and
you have received a high risk alert.
You investigate the alert and
discover data has been
transferred without authorization.
You work diligently to identify
who made the transfer and
discover it is one of
your friends from work.
What do you do?
Ethically, as a security professional,
your job is to remain unbiased and
maintain security and confidentiality.
While it's normal to
want to protect a friend,
regardless of who the user in question may
be, your responsibility and obligation
is to adhere to the policies and
protocols you've been trained to follow.
In many cases, security teams are
entrusted with greater access to data and
information than other employees.
Security professionals must respect that
privilege and act ethically at all times.
Security ethics are guidelines for
making appropriate decisions
as a security professional.
As another example, if you as an analyst
have the ability to grant yourself access
to payroll data and can give yourself
a raise, just because you have access to do
so, does that mean you should?
The answer is no.
You should never abuse the access
you've been granted and entrusted with.
Let's discuss ethical principles that
may raise questions as you navigate
solutions for mitigating risks.
These are confidentiality,
privacy protections, and laws.
Let's begin with the first ethical
principle, confidentiality.
Earlier we discussed confidentiality
as part of the CIA triad.
Now let's discuss how confidentiality
can be applied to ethics.
As a security professional,
you'll encounter proprietary
or private information, such as PII.
It's your ethical duty to keep that
information confidential and safe.
For example, you may want to help
out a coworker by providing computer
system access outside of
properly documented channels.
However, this ethical violation can
result in serious consequences,
including reprimands, the loss of
your professional reputation, and
legal repercussions for
both you and your friend.
The second ethical principle to
consider is privacy protections.
Privacy protection means safeguarding
personal information from
unauthorized use.
For example,
imagine you receive a personal email after
hours from your manager requesting
a colleague's home phone number.
Your manager explains that they can't
access the employee database at the moment,
but they need to discuss
an urgent matter with that person.
As a security analyst, your role is to
follow the policies and procedures of your company,
which in this example, state
that employee information is stored
in a secure database and should never be
accessed or shared in any other format.
So, accessing and sharing the employee's
personal information would be unethical.
In situations like this,
it can be difficult to know what to do.
So, the best response is to
adhere to the policies and procedures
set by your organization.
A third important ethical principle
we must discuss is the law.
Laws are rules that
are recognized by a community and
enforced by a governing entity.
For example, consider a staff
member at a hospital who has been trained
to handle PII,
and SPII for compliance.
The staff member has files with
confidential data that should never be left
unsupervised, but
the staff member is late for a meeting.
Instead of locking the files
in a designated area,
the files are left on the staff
member's desk, unsupervised.
Upon the employee's return,
the files are missing.
The staff member has just violated
multiple compliance regulations, and
their actions were unethical and illegal,
since their negligence has likely resulted
in the loss of private patient and
hospital data.
As you enter the security field, remember
that technology is constantly evolving,
and so are attackers' tactics and
techniques.
Because of this, security professionals
must continue to think critically about
how to respond to attacks.
Having a strong sense of ethics can guide
your decisions to ensure that the proper
processes and procedures
are followed to mitigate
these continually evolving risks.